- [Instructor] Now it's time to jump in
for a little bit more depth with the Quarkus framework,
and we're going to take a look at data access
within the framework itself.
The data access in Quarkus is based entirely
on the concept of a data source.
Which if you've ever done Java development in the past,
the data source construct should be relatively familiar.
The primary purpose of configuring Quarkus
is to wire the data source.
Again, the data source being the central construct,
regardless of whether you're using ORM or JDBC,
it's the data source that really matters.
All of the configuration for that data source
is managed by Quarkus through the common patterns
that we've seen before,
and that is through the application dot properties file.
There are specific properties that apply to one
or more databases, being run against your application.
Each of them being configured as a data source.
Now, other frameworks, like Hibernate,
are actually used for the data access itself.
In fact, even if you don't want to use a framework,
the JDBC framework by itself that is contained within Java,
is technically a framework.
So, other tools are actually used to access the data.
All that Quarkus is really concerned about,
from it's core construct, is the data source.
And this applies whether you're doing reactive, RDS,
or NoSQL, again, all of them have the same construct
of using a data source, or a connection to a database,
that is really what we're trying to achieve with Quarkus.
Now, if you are doing traditional database development
against a relational data store,
you're going to need an Agroal extension,
and this is what provides you with the data source itself,
and more specifically it's what does the connection handling
to the data source, the data storage itself
still comes from Java through the Java dot SQL.
Now this is where you're getting
all of your connection pooling,
and this is the preferred mechanism of doing that.
When we write applications, we want to pool those connections
so that we don't waste tearing down
and setting them back up, over and over again,
we want to reuse those pools to maintain a live connection.
Now, this extension, along with a core driver
is what is required to do data access with Quarkus.
And that driver of course relates to the database of choice.
So, if you're using PostgreS,
you're going to have a driver for that, versus MySQL,
just like you would with Java, or any framework,
regardless of the language.
Now, if you choose to use Hibernate as an ORM,
you're going to get Agroal with it,
because it comes along as a transitive dependency.
I still believe it's worth noting that you should go ahead
and select it, because you may not use Hibernate day one,
but you will use connection pooling day one,
and then you can always add Hibernate on after the fact.
Now there's a couple layers here
when you're doing data access in Quarkus.
So, of course you can use Hibernate, the common ORM,
for all of Java.
There's also a tool called Panache
and we're going to talk a little bit about Panache,
and my favorite way of doing data access still to this day,
is still doing raw JDBC access.
So of course, with raw, you can execute any JDBC action.
You manage the connection,
you manage the query executing against it,
you may need to do some plans on that query
to make sure it's efficient,
but you control all the actions.
Now again, through Hibernate you get a full ORM,
and a lot of people like the ORM
because they don't have to deal with
a lot of the connection tear down and set up.
Now, Panache provides a simplification of entities
on top of Hibernate.
So Panache is just another layer of abstraction above it,
that makes it a little bit easier to do,
JPA type transactions with Hibernate.
And of course transactions are fully supported,
regardless of what you use,
because it's a relational database with a rollback block
and a commit block, and you have to have transactions
in order to use those effectively,
unless you just want to commit on right,
which nobody should ever do in production.
So that's really a basis of data access in Quarkus,
next we're going to show you how to configure the details
of a data source.